.TH XSC 1 "DECEMBER 2016" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
xsc \- X ("Cross") Shader Compiler for HLSL to GLSL translation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xsc
.I OPTIONS+ FILE
.B ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xsc
translates
.B HLSL
(
.I DirectX High Level Shading Language
) code (Shader Model 4 and 5) into
.B GLSL
(
.I OpenGL Shading Language
) code. The compiler provides several options to configure the output
formatting, and also allows to only preprocess the shader code.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-E, --entry ENTRY
Shader entry point, where
.I ENTRY
specifies the name of the entry point function.
.IP "-E2, --entry2 ENTRY"
Secondary shader entry point, where
.I ENTRY
specifies the name of the entry point function.
This can be used to specify a
.I patch constant function
when a tessellation-evaluation shader (also
.I domain shader
) is begin compiled.
.IP "-I, --include-path PATH"
Adds the directory
.I PATH
to the search directories for include directives.
.IP "-T, --target TARGET"
Shader target that is to be processed, where
.I TARGET
can be one of the following values:
.B vert
(Vertex Shader),
.B tesc
(Tessellation-Control/ Hull Shader),
.B tese
(Tessellation-Evaluation/ Domain Shader),
.B geom
(Geometry Shader),
.B frag
(Fragment/ Pixel Shader),
.B comp
(Compute Shader).
.IP "-Vin, --version-in VERSION"
Input shader version, where
.I VERSION
can be one of the following values:
.B HLSL3
(HLSL Shader Model 3;
.I Note that this profile is only partially supported
),
.B HLSL4
(HLSL Shader Model 4),
.B HLSL5
(HLSL Shader Model 5).
.IP "-Vout, --version-out VERSION"
Shader output version, where
.I VERSION
can be one of the following values:
.B GLSL[130, 140, 150, 330, 400, 410, 420, 430, 440, 450]
(GLSL for OpenGL 3+),
.B ESSL[100, 300, 310, 320]
(GLSL for OpenGL ES 2+),
.B VKSL[450]
(GLSL for Vulkan).
.IP "-o, --output OUTPUT"
Shader output file, where
.I OUTPUT
specifies the filename, which can include the asterisk '*' character to be replaced
by the default value, that is
.B <FILE>.<ENTRY>.<TARGET>
where
.I <FILE>
specifies the shader input file,
.I <ENTRY>
specifies the shader entry point, and
.I <TARGET>
specifies the shader target.
.SH BOOLEAN OPTIONS
.IP "--comments [ON|OFF]"
Enables or disables commentary preservation. By default disabled.
Note that only commentaries in front of a statement can be preserved.
.IP "--extension [ON|OFF]"
Enables or disables shader extension output. If enabled, shader extensions will be used
to handle lower output versions, i.e.
.B #extension GL_ARB_uniform_buffer_object : enable
will be written to the shader output if a uniform buffer is used but the output shader version is restricted to
.B GLSL130
for instance. By default disabled.
.SH AUTHOR
Lukas Hermanns <www.twitter.com/LukasBanana>, <www.github.com/LukasBanana>
